__NOTOC__
= GrowthRing =

'''GrowthRing''' is a collections of attempts to visualize how a
document grows over revisions. It contains:
* a multiple sequence alignment tool for texts, written in Scala.
* an interactive demo of text de-identification.

This software was in part used for a research paper presented in PACLIC 2014: '''''k''-repeating substrings: a string-algorithmic approach to privacy-preserving publishing of textual data'''. ([http://www.yusuke.matsubara.name/home/kanon_paclic2014_matsubara.pdf paper], [http://www.yusuke.matsubara.name/home/kanon_paclic2014_matsubara_20141214.pdf slides])

== How to use ==

''[http://www.scala-sbt.org/ sbt 0.13] and Java Development Kit 1.7 are required both for building and using this application''.

This application has a number of parameters that are set by a configuration file (or by Java properties). See <conf>src/main/resources/reference.conf</code> for the default values and <code>.conf</conf> files at the top level of the repository for other examples.

=== Using the web interface ===

# <code>sbt ~tomcat:start</code>
# <code>xdg-open http://localhost:8080</code> # or open http://localhost:8080 on your browser

=== Using the multiple sequence aligner ===

# <code>sbt assembly</code>
# <code>java -Dconfig.file=msa.conf -jar target/scala-*/growthring-assembly-*.jar < sample_input.txt | dot /dev/stdin -Tpdf -o sample_output.pdf</code>

=== Using the de-identifier ===

# <code>sbt assembly</code>
# <code>java -Dconfig.file=anonym.conf -jar target/scala-*/growthring-assembly-*.jar < sample_input.txt > sample_output.txt</code>

==== Using SAIS ====

Better performance might be achieved by SAIS, which you need to install as separate a native library separately.

# Use the command below to get the shared library version of [https://sites.google.com/site/yuta256/sais SAIS].  You may need to add <code>-fPIC</code> to <code>CFLAGS</code> in the Makefile.
#* <code>make && ld -shared sais.o -o libsais.so</code>
# Put <code>libsais.so</code> into any directory included by <code>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</code> (or current directory).
# Use <code>java -Xss50M -Dconfig.file=sais.conf -jar target/scala-*/growthring-assembly-*.jar</code> or otherwise specify <code>-Dorg.whym.growthring.repeatsMethod=sais</code>.

=== Launching as an App Engine app (devserver) ===

# <code>sbt publishM2</code>
# <code>mvn -f pom-gae.xml appengine:devserver</code>
# <code>xdg-open http://localhost:8080</code> # or open http://localhost:8080 on your browser

== Credits ==

* Yusuke Matsubara <nowiki><whym@whym.org></nowiki>
* See [//meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Talk:Vision/ja meta:Talk:Vision/ja?action=history] for credits of the texts contained in sample_input.txt
